# Holochain Identity Manager

You've heard the phrase, "If you can't identify the product, you are the product!", similar to the old poker saying "If you don't know who the sucker is, it's you". All of the **free** internet services we use are subsidised by the money the site owners make selling your data to anyone who will buy it. As an example of how far your data gets shared without you being aware take a look at this interactive graphic on what Payal does with your data - https://rebecca-ricks.com/paypal-data/. Now have a think about the number of websites you have filled out your name, address and other details on and how painful it is to update all of those sites when your address changes. To make this easier sites like Google, Facebook and Microsoft allow you log in on other sites using the details you entered in theirs. This may be convenient but now you are allowing them to know exactly whaqt you do on the internet and they sell that too. Watch this video about not being a [Marketing Meatbag](!https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=X72tHBtiZt4&t=1s)

At Holochain we are building tools to give you back agency over your data. The first part of that is making it simple to manage your profiles over multiple Holochain Apps (hApps) and keep your data to yourself. Holochain Identity Manager gives you back control of your keys, control of your devices and ownership of your personal information.

This collection of tools is designed to perform as a complete foundation for distributed applications enable a fully distributed, peer-to-peer identity. These tools are integrated into an open-source, cryptographic, data integrity framework called Holochain, without promoting the Holochain Foundation into any elevated status of authority as an identity provider. Instead, the tools are specifically designed to enable the emergence of an ecosystem of providers leveraging the tools as a foundation for their services.

The tools are comprised of::
1. **DPKI** - Decentralized Public Key Infrastructure to manage registration, replacement, and revocation of the cryptographic keys used for network addresses, signing, and encryption.
2. **A Personal Data Vault** for people to be the authoritative source of their identifying data, which they gives them one place to update changes, as well as track and revoke sharing data with any apps accessing it.
3. **Signed Claims and Assertions** enable validation of credentials provided by third party peers or authorities with selective exposure of the data elements they contain.

From these elements, we believe people can create and manage secure decentralized identity that can integrate with existing identity systems, but is not wholly dependent on them. Holochain Identity Manager is the Personal Data Vault called Personas & Profiles plus an implementation of DPKI called DeepKey.

## Introduction to DeepKey

To deliver on the basics of Distributed Public Key Infrastructure, we need a way to generate keys of various types (revocation, identity, encryption, signing) from seeds, and we need to be able to generate such seeds from primary seeds, so that a human agent can create related "device agents" provably under their control.

After studying a number of uses cases, including initial sign-up, key revocation, etc, the central insight we came to was the need to create a Hierarchical Deterministic Key generation system, based on a Primary Seed, from which additional seeds can be generated which then are in turn used to actually generate many key-pairs. This allows us, by-convention, to use the first seed generated by the Primary seed as the seed for revocation keys, and subsequent seeds as seeds for keys of separate Holochain devices that can be proven to be under the control of the holder of Primary Seed.

## Personas & Profiles

The personal data tools built on Holochain are designed to empower people with agency over their information.

Personas & Profiles is a personal data store that replicates across authorised devices on its own DNA.
Personas & Profiles puts people in control of how their information is used (Displayed or Stored by the hApp) and allows them to share the same information to many different hApps.
The Personas & Profiles hApp was built to achieve the following goals:
- To keep personal data private and in control of the person whose information it is by storing it only on devices they are in control of or trust.
    - A popular scenario would be the person has a mobile phone, a laptop and access to a HoloPort or 2 located in trusted locations. They may also choose to share to close family as well, which is partiucularly useful for medical records and insurance information.
- It has to be more convenient to fill out forms than OAuth.
    - Profile forms auto fill with matching information from previous profiles.
    - Each field also has auto-complete along with the ability to manage Persona data.
    - The person filling out the form can change all matching fields by selecting a pre-existing persona
- It has to  be simple to manage profile data over multiple Holochain Apps (hApps).
    - The data stored in a Profile is a mapping to the actual data stored as a Persona. Updating the Persona data such as Address is then reflected in every profile
    - Every profile is stored locally so there is no need to visit multiple websites to make your information consistent.
